### Main Features

The user can:

- Specify a token duration in the format `{%d}*d{%d}*h{%d}*m` when attempting to `authenticate`.
- Indicate the folder to save the token and the location from which to load it.
- Use standard ISO format `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.mmmmmm` for serialized `datetime` values, while `timedelta` is encoded as a float representing the total number of seconds until the token expires.
- Operate without the client knowing how the server executes requests (the client is unaware of the service invocation details).


The secure RPC version added:
- a new metadata params supplied into the Request object
- a server-side check on the token in that metadata for authorization requests (the token should belong to an admin user)
- The possibility to reuse the token after successive authentication

---

### Testing

To ensure robust testing, `pytest` was utilized:

- The `ServerStub` is executed at the start of each `pytest` suite invocation (`module` scope), along with a `ClientStub`.
- Each test runs in a reserved `function` scope. Before every test, the persistent data in `ServerStub` is cleared to prevent influencing subsequent tests.

#### Running Unit Tests:



```bash 
poetry run pytest
```

Alternatively, the tests can also be executed from the CLI as a Poetry script:

---

### Running the Server Stub

Start the server stub using:

```bash
poetry run server_stub 8080
```

---

### Example Client Requests

#### Authentication:

In this command, an authentication request is sent, and a token (valid for 1 day and 2 minutes) is retrieved.  
You can optionally provide the `--save_token_path` (or `-s`) argument to set the path and filename for saving the token. By default, it is saved as `token.json` in `lab4/gen_token/`.


```bash
poetry run client_cli localhost:8080 authenticate --user sguidi --password "random" -d 1d2m # Assumes the user "sguidi" already exists
```

#### Validation:

You can use the `--load_token_path` (or `-t`) argument to specify a custom path for loading the token.
- The username argument is needed to search for a valid token in the file system

```bash
poetry run client_cli localhost:8080 validate -u sguidi # Assumes the token was created in the previous command
```


#### Get User:

 `get_user` request:
- other than the argument reserved to the user to retrieve data (`user1`) now an `--admin_auth` or `-ad` arguments should be provided
- If `-ad` is a valid admin username a valid token will be searched from the file system 
```bash
poetry run client_cli localhost:8080 get --admin_auth main_user --user user1
```

---

### Note:

Poetry scripts require a callable entry point. The files have been slightly modified to be invoked both as modules (original approach) and as Poetry scripts.